Add Elkjøp post (#1648)
pulumi/pulumi-hugo: themes/default/content/blog/how-elkjop-nordic-enables-developers-to-self-serve-infrastructure/index.md

---
title: How Elkjøp Nordic enables self-service infrastructure for developers
allow_long_title: true
date: 2022-06-23

> meta_desc: How Elkjøp Nordic enables developers to self-serve infrastructure

Reviewer: ```suggestion
meta_desc: Learn how Elkjøp Nordic enables its developers to self-service Azure infrastructure with compliance guardrails using Pulumi infrastructure as code.
```

meta_image: meta.png
authors:
    - george-huang
tags:
    - change-me
---

> At PulumiUP 2022, Tomas Jansson, software architect at Elkjøp Nordic, gave a presentation on how to enable developers to self-service infrastructure by using Pulumi’s Automation API.

Reviewer: link to Automation API marketing page

![Creating a new repository](./create-repo.png)

Tomas determined that the best way to implement self-service infrastructure was with Pulumi and its [Automation API]({{< relref "/automation" >}}). By using Pulumi, he could use standard programming languages to define infrastructure while using familiar software tools like IDEs and test frameworks. It also natively supports Azure and Kubernetes with 100% coverage of each provider’s APIs and same-day access to new features and updates. Finally, the Pulumi Automation API would enable him to program infrastructure automation directly into his application.

![Deploying with the Pulumi CLI and Automation API](./automation-api-diagram.png)

The Pulumi Automation API is a programmatic interface for running Pulumi programs without the Pulumi CLI. Automation API encapsulates the functionality of the CLI (`pulumi up`, `pulumi preview`, `pulumi destroy`, `pulumi stack init`, etc.) but with more flexibility since infrastructure operations can be controlled programmatically.

## How the self-service infrastructure platform was built

Here is the workflow for the Elkjøp self-service infrastructure platform.

> ![The Elkjøp self-service infrastructure platform](./elkjop-platform-diagram.png)

Author: It's not quite the right shape, as those images are rectangular. 🤔

Every new repository comes with Pulumi programs that developers can use to deploy their application. GitHub Actions initiate the deployment. When an action triggers, Pulumi reads the credentials that were generated by the self-service application, allowing Pulumi to deploy new Kubernetes or Azure resources to the environment.

## Watch the demo

To illustrate how Elkjøp’s self-service platform works, Tomas presented a simplified demo application that’s based on Elkjøp’s production platform. The code for the application is available at <https://github.com/mastoj/pulumi-automation-demo>.

The demo is a TypeScript application that includes an API that provisions Azure and GitHub resources. Pulumi Automation API code is used to deploy new stacks by calling handler code, which is a Pulumi program that defines resources and outputs. The handler code can create Azure resource groups or GitHub repositories, and stack references are used so that outputs generated by the Azure resources can be stored in GitHub (e.g., resource group credentials).

Ready to dive into how this works in detail? Watch the demo here:

> {{< youtube "aoa_O-rh5KE?t=620" >}}

Author: I think maybe Hugo doesn't support the time marker attribute. I'll remove, and then if we need to, we can just say where to skip to.

---

At PulumiUP 2022, Tomas Jansson, software architect at Elkjøp Nordic, gave a presentation on how to enable developers to self-service infrastructure by using Pulumi’s [Automation API]({{< relref "/automation" >}}).

Elkjøp Nordic is the leading consumer electronics retailer in the Nordics. The company sells consumer electronics, mobile phones, computers, white goods, domestic appliances, and services linked to these products both directly to consumers and to businesses. It is an omnichannel retailer and serves customers both online and through more than 400 stores. Elkjøp has retail outlets in Norway, Sweden, Finland and Denmark, and franchise operations in Greenland and Faroe Islands.

To support the company’s modernization strategy, Tomas developed a self-service infrastructure platform that would enable any developer to easily provision cloud infrastructure that uses approved resources and security practices. The goal was to empower teams at Elkjøp to increase their development velocity by using the cloud, while maintaining guardrails that uphold security and compliance.

Watch the full presentation below or read on to learn the highlights of his presentation:

> {{< youtube "https://youtu.be/aoa_O-rh5KE" >}}

Author: ```suggestion
{{< youtube "aoa_O-rh5KE" >}}
```
